http://www.ted.com/talks/jared_diamond_on_why_societies_collapse</url>
But there were also plenty of places in the world where societies have been developing for thousands of years without any sign of a major collapse, such as Japan, Java, Tonga and Tikopea.
So evidently, societies in some areas are more fragile than in other areas.
How can we understand what makes some societies more fragile than other societies?
The problem is obviously relevant to our situation today, because today as well, there are some societies that have already collapsed, such as Somalia and Rwanda and the former Yugoslavia.
There are also societies today that may be close to collapse, such as Nepal, Indonesia and Columbia.
What about ourselves?
What is there that we can learn from the past that would help us avoid declining or collapsing in the way that so many past societies have?
Obviously the answer to this question is not going to be a single factor.
If anyone tells you that there is a single-factor explanation for societal collapses, you know right away that they're an idiot.
This is a complex subject.
But how can we make sense out of the complexities of this subject?
This is a European society with literate records, so we know a good deal about the people and their motivation.
In AD 984 Vikings went out to Greenland, settled Greenland, and around 1450 they died out -- the society collapsed, and every one of them ended up dead.
Why did they all end up dead?
Well, in my five-point framework, the first item on the framework is to look for human impacts on the environment: people inadvertently destroying the resource base on which they depend.
And in the case of the Viking Norse, the Vikings inadvertently caused soil erosion and deforestation, which was a particular problem for them because they required forests to make charcoal, to make iron.
So they ended up an Iron Age European society, virtually unable to make their own iron.
A second item on my checklist is climate change.
Climate can get warmer or colder or dryer or wetter.
The fourth item on my checklist is relations with hostile societies.
What about a society today?
For the past five years, I've been taking my wife and kids to Southwestern Montana, where I worked as a teenager on the hay harvest.
And Montana, at first sight, seems like the most pristine environment in the United States.
But scratch the surface, and Montana suffers from serious problems.
Going through the same checklist: human environmental impacts?
Yes, acute in Montana.
Toxic problems from mine waste have caused damage of billions of dollars.
Fourth: relations with hostiles.
Montanans have the same problems as do all Americans, in being sensitive to problems created by hostiles overseas affecting our oil supplies, and terrorist attacks.
And finally, last item on my checklist: question of how political, economic, social, cultural attitudes play into this.
Montanans have long-held values, which today seem to be getting in the way of their solving their own problems.
Long-held devotion to logging and to mines and to agriculture, and to no government regulation; values that worked well in the past, but they don't seem to be working well today.
So, I'm looking at these issues of collapses for a lot of past societies and for many present societies.
Are there any general conclusions that arise?
Or again, the collapse of the Soviet Union took place within a couple of decades, maybe within a decade, of the time when the Soviet Union was at its greatest power.
An analogue would be the growth of bacteria in a petri dish.
These rapid collapses are especially likely where there's a mismatch between available resources and resource consumption, or a mismatch between economic outlays and economic potential.
In a petri dish, bacteria grow.
Say they double every generation, and five generations before the end the petri dish is 15/16ths empty, and then the next generation's 3/4ths empty, and the next generation half empty.
Within one generation after the petri dish still being half empty, it is full.
There's no more food and the bacteria have collapsed.
So, this is a frequent theme: societies collapse very soon after reaching their peak in power.
Easter, of all Pacific islands, has the least input of dust from Asia restoring the fertility of its soils.
But that's a factor that we didn't even appreciate until 1999.
So, some societies, for subtle environmental reasons, are more fragile than others.
And then finally, another generalization.
I'm now teaching a course at UCLA, to UCLA undergraduates, on these collapses of societies.
What really bugs my UCLA undergraduate students is, how on earth did these societies not see what they were doing?
How could the Easter Islanders have deforested their environment?
What did they say when they were cutting down the last palm tree?
Didn't they see what they were doing?
How could societies not perceive their impacts on the environments and stop in time?
And I would expect that, if our human civilization carries on, then maybe in the next century people will be asking, why on earth did these people today in the year 2003 not see the obvious things that they were doing and take corrective action?
It seems incredible in the past.
In the future, it'll seem incredible what we are doing today.
And so I've been trying to develop a hierarchical set of considerations about why societies fail to solve their problems --
why they fail to perceive the problems or, if they perceive them, why they fail to tackle them.
Or, if they tackle them, why do they fail to succeed in solving them?
I'll just mention two generalizations in this area.
One blueprint for trouble, making collapse likely, is where there is a conflict of interest between the short-term interest of the decision-making elites and the long-term interest of the society as a whole, especially if the elites are able to insulate themselves from the consequences of their actions.
Where what's good in the short run for the elite is bad for the society as a whole, there's a real risk of the elite doing things that would bring the society down in the long run.
For example, among the Greenland Norse --
a competitive rank society --
what the chiefs really wanted is more followers and more sheep and more resources to outcompete the neighboring chiefs.
And that led the chiefs to do what's called flogging the land: overstocking the land, forcing tenant farmers into dependency.
And that made the chiefs powerful in the short run, but led to the society's collapse in the long run.
Those same issues of conflicts of interest are acute in the United States today.
Especially because the decision makers in the United States are frequently able to insulate themselves from consequences by living in gated compounds, by drinking bottled water and so on.
And within the last couple of years, it's been obvious that the elite in the business world correctly perceive that they can advance their short-term interest by doing things that are good for them but bad for society as a whole, such as draining a few billion dollars out of Enron and other businesses.
They are quite correct that these things are good for them in the short term, although bad for society in the long term.
So, that's one general conclusion about why societies make bad decisions: conflicts of interest.
One of the things that enabled Australia to survive in this remote outpost of European civilization for 250 years has been their British identity.
But today, their commitment to a British identity is serving Australians poorly in their need to adapt to their situation in Asia.
So it's particularly difficult to change course when the things that get you in trouble are the things that are also the source of your strength.
What's going to be the outcome today?
And my answer is, the most important thing we need to do is to forget about there being any single thing that is the most important thing we need to do.
Instead, there are a dozen things, any one of which could do us in.
The fact is that our present course is a non-sustainable course, which means, by definition, that it cannot be maintained.
And the outcome is going to get resolved within a few decades.
That means that those of us in this room who are less than 50 or 60 years old will see how these paradoxes are resolved, and those of us who are over the age of 60 may not see the resolution, but our children and grandchildren certainly will.
The resolution is going to achieve either of two forms: either we will resolve these non-sustainable time-fuses in pleasant ways of our own choice by taking remedial action, or else these conflicts are going to get settled in unpleasant ways not of our choice --
namely, by war, disease or starvation.
But what's for sure is that our non-sustainable course will get resolved in one way or another in a few decades.
In other words, since the theme of this session is choices, we have a choice.
Does that mean that we should get pessimistic and overwhelmed?
I draw the reverse conclusion.
The big problems facing the world today are not at all things beyond our control.
Our biggest threat is not an asteroid about to crash into us, something we can do nothing about.
Instead, all the major threats facing us today are problems entirely of our own making.
And since we made the problems, we can also solve the problems.
That then means that it's entirely in our power to deal with these problems.