http://www.ted.com/talks/sting_how_i_started_writing_songs_again</url>
Some of my earliest memories are of giant ships blocking the end of my street, as well as the sun, for a lot of the year.
Every morning as a child, I'd watch thousands of men walk down that hill to work in the shipyard.
I'd watch those same men walking back home every night.
It has to be said, the shipyard was not the most pleasant place to live next door to, or indeed work in.
The shipyard was noisy, dangerous, highly toxic, with an appalling health and safety record.
Despite that, the men and women who worked on those ships were extraordinarily proud of the work they did, and justifiably so.
Some of the largest vessels ever constructed on planet Earth were built right at the end of my street.
My grandfather had been a shipwright, and as a child, as there were few other jobs in the town, I would wonder with some anxiety whether that would be my destiny too.
I was fairly determined that it wouldn't be.
I had other dreams, not necessarily practical ones, but at the age of eight, I was bequeathed a guitar.
It was a battered old thing with five rusty strings, and was out of tune, but quickly I learned to play it and realized that I'd found a friend for life, an accomplice, a co-conspirator in my plan to escape from this surreal industrial landscape.
Well, they say if you dream something hard enough, it will come to pass.
Either that, or I was extremely lucky, but this was my dream.
I dreamt I would leave this town, and just like those ships, once they were launched, I'd never come back.
I dreamt I'd become a writer of songs, that I would sing those songs to vast numbers of people all over the world, that I would be paid extravagant amounts of money, that I'd become famous, that I'd marry a beautiful woman, have children, raise a family, buy a big house in the country, keep dogs, grow wine, have rooms full of Grammy Awards, platinum discs, and what have you.
So far, so good, right?
And then one day, the songs stopped coming, and while you've suffered from periods of writer's block before, albeit briefly, this is something chronic.
Day after day, you face a blank page, and nothing's coming.
So you start asking yourself questions.
What have I done to offend the gods that they would abandon me so?
Is the gift of songwriting taken away as easily as it seems to have been bestowed?
Or perhaps there's a more -- a deeper psychological reason.
It was always a Faustian pact anyway.
You're rewarded for revealing your innermost thoughts, your private emotions on the page for the entertainment of others, for the analysis, the scrutiny of others, and perhaps you've given enough of your privacy away.
And yet, if you look at your work, could it be argued that your best work wasn't about you at all, it was about somebody else?
Did your best work occur when you sidestepped your own ego and you stopped telling your story, but told someone else's story, someone perhaps without a voice, where empathetically, you stood in his shoes for a while or saw the world through his eyes?
Well they say, write what you know.
If you can't write about yourself anymore, then who do you write about?
So it's ironic that the landscape I'd worked so hard to escape from, and the community that I'd more or less abandoned and exiled myself from should be the very landscape, the very community I would have to return to to find my missing muse.
And as soon as I did that, as soon as I decided to honor the community I came from and tell their story, that the songs started to come thick and fast.
I've described it as a kind of projectile vomiting, a torrent of ideas, of characters, of voices, of verses, couplets, entire songs almost formed whole, materialized in front of me as if they'd been bottled up inside me for many, many years.
One of the first things I wrote was just a list of names of people I'd known, and they become characters in a kind of three-dimensional drama, where they explain who they are, what they do, their hopes and their fears for the future.
This is Jackie White.
He's the foreman of the shipyard.
My name is Jackie White, and I'm foreman of the yard, and you don't mess with Jackie on this quayside.
I'm as hard as iron plate, woe betide you if you're late when we have to push a boat out on the spring tide.
Now you can die and hope for heaven, but you need to work your shift, and I'd expect you all to back us to the hilt, for if St. Peter at his gate were to ask you why you're late, why, you tell him that you had to get a ship built.
This song is called "Dead Man's Boots," which is an expression which describes how difficult it is to get a job;
in other words, you'd only get a job in the shipyard if somebody else died.
Or perhaps your father could finagle you an apprenticeship at the age of 15.
But sometimes a father's love can be misconstrued as controlling, and conversely, the scope of his son's ambition can seem like some pie-in-the-sky fantasy.
So whenever they'd launch a big ship, they would invite some dignitary up from London on the train to make a speech, break a bottle of champagne over the bows, launch it down the slipway into the river and out to sea.
Occasionally on a really important ship, they'd get a member of the royal family to come, Duke of Edinburgh, Princess Anne or somebody.
And you have to remember, it wasn't that long ago that the royal family in England were considered to have magical healing powers.
Sick children were held up in crowds to try and touch the cloak of the king or the queen to cure them of some terrible disease.
It wasn't like that in my day, but we still got very excited.
So it's a launch day, it's a Saturday, and my mother has dressed me up in my Sunday best.
I'm not very happy with her.
All the kids are out in the street, and we have little Union Jacks to wave, and at the top of the hill, there's a motorcycle cortege appears.
In the middle of the motorcycles, there's a big, black Rolls-Royce.
Inside the Rolls-Royce is the Queen Mother.
This is a big deal.
So the procession is moving at a stately pace down my street, and as it approaches my house, I start to wave my flag vigorously, and there is the Queen Mother.
I see her, and she seems to see me.
She acknowledges me.
She waves, and she smiles.
And I wave my flag even more vigorously.
We're having a moment, me and the Queen Mother.
She's acknowledged me.
And then she's gone.
Well, I wasn't cured of anything.
It was the opposite, actually.
I was infected.
I was infected with an idea.
I don't belong in this street.
I don't want to live in that house.
I don't want to end up in that shipyard.
I want to be in that car.
I want a bigger life.
I want a life beyond this town.
I want a life that's out of the ordinary.
It's my right.
It's my right as much as hers.
And so here I am at TED, I suppose to tell that story, and I think it's appropriate to say the obvious that there's a symbiotic and intrinsic link between storytelling and community, between community and art, between community and science and technology, between community and economics.
It's my belief that abstract economic theory that denies the needs of community or denies the contribution that community makes to economy is shortsighted, cruel and untenable.
The fact is, whether you're a rock star or whether you're a welder in a shipyard, or a tribesman in the upper Amazon, or the queen of England, at the end of the day, we're all in the same boat.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Okay, you have to join in if you know it.
It's very easy.
Sing in unison.
Here we go.
Sending out an S.O.S.
Come on now.
Audience: Sending out an S.O.S.
Sting: Sending out an S.O.S.
Audience: Sending out an S.O.S.
Sting: I'm sending out an S.O.S.
Audience: Sending out an S.O.S.
Sting: Sending out an S.O.S.
Audience: Sending out an S.O.S.
Sting: Sending out Sending out an S.O.S.
Sending out an S.O.S.
Sending out an S.O.S.
Sending out an S.O.S.
Yoooooooo Thank you, TED.
Goodnight.