http://www.ted.com/talks/natalie_merchant_sings_old_poems_to_life</url>
My age is three hundred and seventy-two I think with the deepest regret How I used to pick up and voraciously chew the dear little boys that I met I've eaten them raw in their holiday suits, Eaten them curried with rice, I've eaten them baked in their jackets and boots, And found them exceedingly nice.
But now that my jaws are too weak for such fare, I think it's increasingly rude To do such a thing when I'm quite well aware Little boys do not like being chewed.
Little boys do not like being chewed.
So now I contentedly live upon eels, And try to do nothing amiss And pass all the time I can spare from my meals In innocent slumber like this, Innocent slumber like this.
I suppose I owe you an explanation.
I've been working on a project for the last six years adapting children's poetry to music.
And that's a poem by Charles Edward Carryl, who was a stockbroker in New York City for 45 years, but in the evenings, he wrote nonsense for his children.
And this book was one of the most famous books in America for about 35 years.
"The Sleepy Giant," which is the song that I just sang, is one of his poems.
Now, we're going to do other poems for you, and here's a preview of some of the poets.
This is Rachel Field, Robert Graves -- a very young Robert Graves -- Christina Rossetti.
Ghosts, right?
Have nothing to say to us, obsolete, gone -- not so.
What I really enjoyed about this project is reviving these people's words.
Taking them off the dead, flat pages.
Bringing them to life, bringing them to light.
So, what we're going to do next is a poem that was written by Nathalia Crane.
Nathalia Crane was a little girl from Brooklyn.
When she was 10 years old in 1927, she published her first book of poems called "The Janitor's Boy."
Here she is.
And here's her poem.
Maggie and Milly, Molly and May They went down to the beach one day to play And Maggie discovered a shell that sang So sweetly she couldn't remember her troubles Maggie and Milly, Molly and May Maggie and Milly, Molly and May Milly befriended a stranded star Whose rays, whose rays Five languid fingers were Maggie and Milly, Molly and May Maggie and Milly, Molly and May Molly was chased by a horrible thing Which raced sideways blowing Blowing Blowing May came home with a smooth, round stone Small as a world and as large as alone For whatever we lose like a you or a me Always ourselves that we find at the sea Thank you.
The next poem is "If No One Ever Marries Me."
It was written by Laurence Alma-Tadema.
She was the daughter of a very, very famous Dutch painter who had made his fame in England.
He went there after the death of his wife of smallpox and brought his two young children.
One was his daughter, Laurence.
She wrote this poem when she was 18 years old in 1888, and I look at it as kind of a very sweet feminist manifesto tinged with a little bit of defiance and a little bit of resignation and regret.
Thank you.
I became very curious about the poets after spending six years with them, and started to research their lives, and then decided to write a book about it.
And the burning question about Alma-Tadema was: Did she marry?
And the answer was no, which I found in the London Times archive.
She died alone in 1940 in the company of her books and her dear friends.
Gerard Manley Hopkins, a saintly man.
He became a Jesuit.
He converted from his Anglican faith.
He was moved to by the Tractarian Movement, the Oxford Movement, otherwise known as -- and he became a Jesuit priest.
He burned all his poetry at the age of 24 and then did not write another poem for at least seven years because he couldn't rectify the life of a poet with the life of a priest.
He died typhoid fever at the age of 44, I believe, 43 or 44.
At the time, he was teaching classics at Trinity College in Dublin.
A few years before he died, after he had resumed writing poetry, but in secret, he confessed to a friend in a letter that I found when I was doing my research: "I've written a verse.
It is to explain death to a child, and it deserves a piece of plain-song music."
And my blood froze when I read that because I had written the plain-song music 130 years after he'd written the letter.
And the poem is called, "Spring and Fall."
I'd like to thank everybody, all the scientists, the philosophers, the architects, the inventors, the biologists, the botanists, the artists ...
everyone that blew my mind this week.
Thank you.
Just bring it down a little.
It's my turn.
I still have two minutes.
Okay, we're going to start that verse again.
Well, you've been so ...
That's innovative, don't you think?
Calming the audience down; I'm supposed to be whipping you into a frenzy, and I, "That's enough. Sh."
Now, you've been kind and ... I'm going to sing this to Bill Gates.
I have so much admiration for him.
I'll show you how to clap to this song.
I want to thank you, thank you Thank you, thank you Thank you, thank you Thank you, thank you I want to thank you, thank you It works better, right?
Decrescendo.
Gradually, bringing it down, bringing it down.
I want to thank you, thank you Finger popping, ain't no stopping.
Thank you so much.