http://www.ted.com/talks/hod_lipson_builds_self_aware_robots</url>
So, where are the robots?
We've been told for 40 years already that they're coming soon.
Very soon they'll be doing everything for us.
They'll be cooking, cleaning, buying things, shopping, building.
But they aren't here.
Meanwhile, we have illegal immigrants doing all the work, but we don't have any robots.
So I want to give a little bit of a different perspective of how we can perhaps look at these things in a little bit of a different way.
We can make the circuitry of the right computational power, but we can't actually put them together to make something that will actually work and be as adaptive as these systems.
So let's try to look at it from a different perspective.
Let's summon the best designer, the mother of all designers.
Let's see what evolution can do for us.
So we threw in -- we created a primordial soup with lots of pieces of robots -- with bars, with motors, with neurons.
Put them all together, and put all this under kind of natural selection, under mutation, and rewarded things for how well they can move forward.
A very simple task, and it's interesting to see what kind of things came out of that.
So if you look, you can see a lot of different machines come out of this.
They all move around.
They all crawl in different ways, and you can see on the right, that we actually made a couple of these things, and they work in reality.
These are not very fantastic robots, but they evolved to do exactly what we reward them for: for moving forward.
So that was all done in simulation, but we can also do that on a real machine.
Here's a physical robot that we actually have a population of brains, competing, or evolving on the machine.
And you can see these robots are not ready to take over the world yet, but they gradually learn how to move forward, and they do this autonomously.
So in these two examples, we had basically machines that learned how to walk in simulation, and also machines that learned how to walk in reality.
But I want to show you a different approach, and this is this robot over here, which has four legs.
It has eight motors, four on the knees and four on the hip.
It has also two tilt sensors that tell the machine which way it's tilting.
But this machine doesn't know what it looks like.
Initially, it does some random motion, and then it tries to figure out what it might look like.
So what you're seeing here are a couple of machines -- a pattern of locomotion.
We were hoping that it wass going to have a kind of evil, spidery walk, but instead it created this pretty lame way of moving forward.
But when you look at that, you have to remember that this machine did not do any physical trials on how to move forward, nor did it have a model of itself.
It kind of figured out what it looks like, and how to move forward, and then actually tried that out.
So, we'll move forward to a different idea.
That's what happened when the robots actually are rewarded for doing something.
What happens if you don't reward them for anything, you just throw them in?
So we have these cubes, like the diagram showed here.
So, initially nothing happens, they're just flipping around there.
But after a very short while, you can see these blue things on the right there begin to take over.
They begin to self-replicate.
So in absence of any reward, the intrinsic reward is self-replication.
And we've actually built a couple of these, and this is part of a larger robot made out of these cubes.
It's an accelerated view, where you can see the robot actually carrying out some of its replication process.
So you're feeding it with more material -- cubes in this case -- and more energy, and it can make another robot.
So of course, this is a very crude machine, but we're working on a micro-scale version of these, and hopefully the cubes will be like a powder that you pour in.
OK, so what can we learn?
These robots are of course not very useful in themselves, but they might teach us something about how we can build better robots, and perhaps how humans, animals, create self-models and learn.
And one of the things that I think is important is that we have to get away from this idea of designing the machines manually, but actually let them evolve and learn, like children, and perhaps that's the way we'll get there.
Thank you.