http://www.ted.com/talks/the_jill_and_julia_show</url>
And then the pilot didn't go and I was so sad, but I kept remaining a fan of yours.
And then when I went through that big, horrible breakup with Carl and I couldn't get off the couch, I listened to your song, "Now That I Don't Have You," over and over and over and over again.
And I can't believe you're here and that I'm meeting you here at TED.
And also, I can't believe that we're eating sushi in front of the fish tank, which, personally, I think is really inappropriate.
The explorers slaughtered the braves.
Sweeney: Horribly.
Sobule: The Old Testament God can be so petty.
Sweeney: Don't get me started on that.
Sobule: Paul McCartney, jealous of John, even more so now that he's gone.
Dylan was so mean to Donovan in that movie.
Pablo Picasso, cruel to his wives.
Sweeney: Horrible.
Plato in the cave with those very young boys.
Sweeney: Ooh...
Sobule: Take it, Julia.
Sweeney: Okay.
Oprah was never necessarily a big hero of mine.
I mean, I watch Oprah mostly when I'm home in Spokane visiting my mother.
And to my mother, Oprah is a greater moral authority than the Pope, which is actually saying something because she's a devout Catholic.
And that was that she did two entire shows promoting that movie "The Secret."
Do you guys know about that movie "The Secret"?
It makes "What the Bleep Do We Know" seem like a doctoral dissertation from Harvard on quantum mechanics -- that's how bad it is.
It makes "The DaVinci Code" seem like "War and Peace."
That movie is so horrible.
It promotes such awful pseudoscience.
And the basic idea is that there's this law of attraction, and your thoughts have this vibrating energy that goes out into the universe and then you attract good things to happen to you.
On a scientific basis, it's more than just "Power of Positive Thinking" --
it has a horrible, horrible dark side.
Like if you get ill, it's because you've just been thinking negative thoughts.
Yeah, stuff like that was in the movie and she's promoting it.
And all I'm saying is that I really wish that Murray Gell-Mann would go on Oprah and just explain to her that the law of attraction is, in fact, not a law.
So that's what I have to say.
Sobule: I sing.
Sweeney: I tell stories.
Together: The Jill and Julia Show.
Sobule: Sometimes it works.
Sweeney: Sometimes it doesn't.
Together: The Jill and Julia, the Jill and Julia, the Jill and Julia Show.